David Attenburg:
Monkey Head
Nebula,
a dark brown
and rust
colored dust
clouds billow
outwards,
framed
against a
background
of bright
blue gas.
These
striking hues
are formed
by combining
several
Hubble Space
Telescope
images,
taken with
different
colored
filters,
to reveal a
broad range
of colors,
not normally
visible
to the
human eye,
sitting
about 6, 400
light years
away In the
constellation
of Orion,
this violent
stellar
nursery
contains
all the
ingredients
needed
for star
formation.
However, the
recipe for
cooking up
new stars
isn't very
efficient,
and most
of these
ingredients
are wasted as
the cloud of
gas and dust
gradually
disperses.
The rate at
which the
nebula is
accelerated
by the
presence
of fiery,
hot, young
stars,
which trigger
high velocity
winds that
help to
blow the gas
outwards.
Launched
in 1990,
the Hubble
Space
Telescope
has witnessed
countless
cosmic
marvels in
its more
than 30 years
in orbit.